Received 17 October 2024, accepted 9 December 2024, date of publication 12 December 2024, date of current version 20 December 2024.

An Algorithmic Trading Approach Merging
Machine Learning With Multi-Indicator
Strategies for Optimal Performance

NARONGSAK SUKMA 1 AND CHAKKRIT SNAE NAMAHOOT 1,2
1Faculty of Science, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok 65000, Thailand
2Center of Excellence in Nonlinear Analysis and Optimization, Faculty of Science, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok 65000, Thailand
Corresponding author: Chakkrit Snae Namahoot (chakkrits@nu.ac.th)
This work was supported in part by the Faculty of Science, Naresuan University, and in part by the Faculty of Science, Naresuan University


ABSTRACT This study investigates the integration of machine learning techniques with multi-indicator
strategies in algorithmic trading to overcome the limitations of traditional trading methods. As financial
markets become increasingly complex and volatile, innovative approaches are essential to improve predictive
accuracy and adaptability. This research aims to develop an algorithmic trading framework that dynamically
selects relevant indicators to optimize trading performance. Researchers propose a flexible and computationally efficient model that takes advantage of advanced machine learning algorithms alongside multiple
technical indicators, designed to adapt to changing market conditions. An empirical analysis evaluates the
effectiveness of this approach against traditional trading indicators. The results demonstrate that the proposed
algorithm achieved an impressive total return of 901%, significantly outperforming traditional indicators
such as Moving Average (MA), Relative Strength Index (RSI), Moving Average Convergence Divergence
(MACD), Bollinger Bands, On-Balance Volume (OBV), and Ichimoku. Furthermore, the model maintained
a high win rate during the backtesting, showcasing its robustness under various market conditions. These
findings highlight the potential of hybrid strategies that combine machine learning with technical analysis.
This research emphasizes the need for adaptive trading models that can respond to the dynamic nature of
financial markets. The integration of machine learning with multi-indicator strategies is shown to enhance
trading performance. Future work should focus on improving the interpretability of the model and exploring
diverse datasets to further enhance the effectiveness of algorithmic trading methodologies.


INDEX TERMS Undervalued stocks, algorithmic approaches, machine learning, predictive modeling,
financial markets


I. INTRODUCTION
In the complex realm of investment strategies, the quest
to maximize returns while mitigating risks has perpetually
preoccupied institutional investors. Central to this pursuit is
the identification of undervalued stocks, a pursuit fraught
with complexities and challenges, but offering tantalizing prospects of outperforming market benchmarks and
delivering superior returns over the long term. Traditional
approaches to the valuation of stocks, grounded in fundamental analysis and market sentiment, have long served as the basis for investment decision-making processes [1], [2], [3].
However, the dynamic and multifaceted nature of financial
markets, characterized by volatility, uncertainty, and information asymmetry, requires a more nuanced and data-driven
approach to identifying undervalued stocks. It is within this
evolving landscape that the convergence of machine learning
(ML) methodologies and investment strategies presents a
compelling narrative of innovation and opportunity [4], [5],
[6]. Historically, investment decisions have been guided by
human intuition and analytical frameworks based on historical data and financial metrics [7]. Although these approaches
have been successful, they are inherently limited by the biases
and cognitive constraints inherent in human decision-making processes. In contrast, ML algorithms offer the promise of
transcending these limitations by systematically analyzing
vast amounts of data, identifying patterns and trends [8], and
generating predictive models capable of making informed
autonomous decisions [9]. Financial markets have experienced profound changes in recent years, largely driven by
rapid technological advancements and the proliferation of
data. As a result, traders and investors are increasingly faced
with the challenge of navigating a complex and volatile environment. Traditional trading strategies, which often rely on
fundamental and technical analysis, may struggle to adapt
to the fast-paced dynamics of modern markets. This has
led to a growing interest in algorithmic trading, a method
that utilizes computer algorithms to execute trades based
on predefined criteria. In this context, the integration of
sophisticated analytical tools becomes essential to improve
trading performance and decision-making. also, Algorithmic
trading has gained traction due to its ability to process vast
amounts of data and execute trades at high speeds, thereby
democratizing market access. However, despite its advantages, many algorithmic trading models face limitations in
predictive accuracy and adaptability. This raises critical questions about the effectiveness of existing strategies and the
potential for improvement through innovative approaches.
Consequently, this research aims to explore the integration
of machine learning techniques with multi-indicator strategies to address these challenges. Additionally, to frame this
exploration, the study poses two primary research questions:
RQ1: How can the integration of machine learning with
multi-indicator strategies enhance the predictive accuracy and
performance of algorithmic trading models?
RQ2: What impact does the use of a multi-indicator
approach have on the interpretability and decision-making
processes of traders using algorithmic trading systems?
These questions are crucial to understanding the potential benefits of combining traditional technical analysis with
modern computational techniques. To answer these questions, the research sets two key objectives. First, it aims to
develop and evaluate a comprehensive framework that merges
machine learning techniques with multi-indicator strategies,
thereby improving the predictive accuracy and overall performance of algorithmic trading models. This objective is based
on the recognition that traditional indicators, when enhanced
through machine learning, can provide deeper insight into
market trends and dynamics. Second, the study seeks to assess
the interpretability of the proposed multi-indicator approach
in algorithmic trading, offering insights that enhance traders’
understanding of model predictions and decision-making
processes. This objective is particularly important as it
addresses the often-criticized nature of machine learning models, which can hinder their adoption among
practitioners.
The significance of this research lies in its potential to
contribute to the existing body of knowledge on algorithmic
trading. By leveraging a multi-indicator approach, the study
aims to provide valuable insights for both individual and
institutional investors, ultimately enhancing the effectiveness
of their trading strategies. Furthermore, the findings will offer
a solid foundation for future research in the field, driving
innovation in algorithmic trading methodologies.
As the financial landscape continues to evolve, the need
for adaptable and resilient trading strategies becomes increasingly critical. Integration of machine learning with traditional
technical indicators represents a promising way to achieve
this goal. By addressing the identified gaps in the existing literature and leveraging multi-indicator analysis, this research
has the potential to drive significant advancements in algorithmic trading practices.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows.
Section II provides a literature review on algorithmic trading,
machine learning applications, and multi-indicator strategies.
Section III describes the research methodology, including
data collection, model development, and evaluation metrics.
Section IV presents the results of the empirical analysis,
highlighting the performance of the proposed framework.
Section V discusses the implications of the findings for
traders and investors, while Section VI concludes the article
and suggests avenues for future research.


II. RELATED WORK
A. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
The existing body of research on algorithmic trading has
made significant progress in integrating machine learning
techniques with technical indicators, but several key gaps
remain. Reinforcement Learning (RL) and BiLSTM models
have demonstrated improved predictive precision, but these
approaches often rely on a limited set of technical indicators, which can result in model complexity and potential
overfitting [10], [11]. Furthermore, deep learning models,
while effective, require significant computational resources,
making their application in real-time trading systems challenging [12], [13]. Hybrid models that combine technical and
fundamental analysis [14] or sentiment analysis [15] show
promise, but their validation is often limited to specific markets or asset classes, restricting their broader applicability.
Furthermore, studies indicate that high predictive accuracy
does not always lead to high profitability, particularly in
models that use sentiment and numerical data. There is a clear
need for models that optimize profitability while maintaining
accuracy. Furthermore, existing models, such as RL integrated with technical or sentiment analysis [16], often lack
adaptability to rapidly changing market dynamics, a crucial
aspect for real-world trading applications. Although some
research explores hybrid approaches [17], there is untapped
potential in combining various machine learning techniques
and multiple indicators to create more robust and dynamic
models. Addressing these gaps, the research proposed in this
article aims to develop a more adaptive, computationally feasible, and profitable trading system, leveraging the strengths
of multiple models and indicators to improve both prediction
accuracy and profitability.


B. MULTI-INDICATOR APPROACHES
The current literature on algorithmic trading with machine
learning and multi-indicator strategies highlights both
advancements and limitations across various studies.
A framework combining multi-indicator feature selection
(MICFS) with Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) has
been shown to enhance prediction accuracy and trading
returns by selecting relevant indicators and reducing data
complexity [18]. While the MICFS-CNN approach shows
promising 60.02% accuracy and 31.07% returns, the reliance
on fixed indicators limits its adaptability to different stock
indices and market conditions. This flexibility gap is critical, as different market environments may require dynamic
indicator selection methods for optimal results. Furthermore,
algorithms that use multiple indicators, such as RSI, EMA,
MACD and VWAP, have also been investigated, showing that
the combination of various indicators improves performance
and reduces risks [19].
However, most of these studies limit their exploration of
machine learning models, which could further enhance the
effectiveness of these strategies in different contexts. For
example, while Python script can make a strategy development, a deeper exploration of the integration of machine
learning with traditional indicators is necessary to optimize
results, especially in volatile markets [20]. Furthermore,
a novel approach in the blockchain space has introduced a
method to improve notary node participation and resource
allocation, although this research is not specific to algorithmic trading [21]. However, its credit evaluation algorithm
presents a useful parallel for resource allocation, a concept that could inspire similar advances in cross-chain asset
trading models or even trading indicators in stock markets.
Furthermore, another important area of research focuses on
multi-indicator trend analysis, which demonstrates how technical indicators such as RSI, EMAs, MACD, and Bollinger
Bands can improve trading profitability and forecast accuracy [22]. Although this study addresses the need for
systematic strategies, it points out that risks of overfitting
and potential data biases still challenge reliable long-term
predictions. Machine learning methods could mitigate some
of these issues by improving the feature selection process and
adapting to diverse data sources, but these techniques remain
underexplored in conjunction with traditional financial indicators.
Furthermore, the introduction of multiparametric models
that incorporate factors such as energy (E) and entropy (S)
into trading decision variables has also been shown to
reduce noise and improve reliability in market analysis [23].
Although this approach emphasizes market behavior and
dynamic decision-making, it lacks comprehensive empirical
validation, and the complexity of integrating multiple indicators can lead to false signals. More research is needed
to empirically validate how such models perform under
different market conditions. However, a more recent study
proposes using multi-indicator CNNs for trading signal
predictions, outperforming traditional models in terms of accuracy [24]. The findings suggest that the combination
of machine learning techniques with multiple indicators has
significant potential to improve trading efficiency.
However, the complexity requires extensive computational
resources and its adaptability under different market conditions requires further exploration [25], [26], [27], [28].
In addition, a study using SPA tests and in-sample and outof-sample tests in ten technical trading rules from futures
markets found that the best-performing rules could outperform buy-and-hold strategies under certain conditions [29].
This research highlights the profitability of technical analysis, yet its generalizability across different markets and
conditions is limited, emphasizing the need for more adaptable and machine learning-based methods. While significant
progress has been made in algorithmic trading by combining technical indicators and machine learning techniques,
key gaps remain. Current approaches are often constrained
by fixed indicator selection, computational complexity, and
limited adaptability in diverse market environments. This
proposed research aims to address these gaps by developing
a flexible and computationally efficient model that dynamically selects the most relevant indicators. This model will aim
to optimize performance under different market conditions,
thus contributing to the advancement of algorithmic trading
research.

C. MACHINE LEARNING IN FINANCE
The application of machine learning (ML) and algorithmic
trading strategies has garnered significant attention, with
numerous studies exploring various approaches to improve
predictive accuracy and decision-making in financial markets. However, key gaps remain in optimizing multi-indicator
strategies, integrating diverse financial data sources, and
ensuring scalability across different market conditions. For
example, hybrid approaches that combine machine learning
with network analysis have shown promise in predicting
financial distress by leveraging company correlation networks [30]. However, challenges related to the complexity of
network construction and limited sector applicability persist.
In the realm of green finance, ML models have indicated that
digital finance can promote sustainable development [31], but
the mechanisms through which this occurs remain underexplored, limiting the generalizability across various industries.
Several studies have investigated the potential of combining
machine learning techniques with financial fraud detection [32], cybersecurity [33], and portfolio management [27],
[34], [35]. Supervised ML approaches have proven to be
effective in identifying financial fraud [32], while knowledge
distillation frameworks have been proposed to defend against
membership inference attacks [33].
However, these models often rely on specific datasets,
which may not capture the dynamics of the broader financial ecosystem. Furthermore, in portfolio management, deep
reinforcement learning combined with quantum finance principles [36], [37] has shown potential in optimizing trading strategies. However, the complexity of implementation and
overfitting issues suggest that further research is needed
to enhance the adaptability and robustness of the model
under different market conditions. Furthermore, explainable
AI (XAI) techniques have been proposed to improve transparency in financial decision making [38], but comprehensive
studies on their applications in algorithmic trading are lacking. Although various ML algorithms have been used to
improve trading predictions [39], the focus on traditional
methods limits the exploration of advanced techniques such
as deep learning, which could improve predictive accuracy.
In particular, neural networks have outperformed traditional
models in the pricing of real estate derivatives [40] and
statistical arbitrage strategies [41], but there are still gaps
in addressing prediction noise and improving feature selection. Bayesian optimization and support vector regression
have been applied to portfolio returns [42], but the exclusion of endogeneity issues underscores the need for more
robust models capable of handling complex financial data.
In addition, incorporating natural language processing (NLP)
techniques into algorithmic trading is another promising
avenue. One study successfully used NLP to analyze the temporal dimension of financial news, achieving high precision
and recall [43].
However, reliance on labeled data sets limits the applicability to other contexts without similar data. Machine
learning techniques have also been used to detect risk factors
in rural financial environments [44] and identify arbitrage
opportunities in quantitative finance [41]. However, both
studies highlight the need for comprehensive datasets and
feature engineering to capture the complexities of the financial market. This proposed research seeks to address these
existing gaps by integrating various ML techniques and
trading indicators to optimize performance under various
market conditions. Unlike prior studies that focus on single methodologies or limited datasets, this research aims to
provide a comprehensive framework for optimizing algorithmic trading performance through the integration of ML with
multi-indicator strategies.


D. INTEGRATION OF MACHINE LEARNING AND
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
The intersection of machine learning (ML) and technical
analysis in algorithmic trading represents a transformative
frontier within the financial industry, yet the existing literature reveals several critical gaps that underscore the need
for further research. Studies show that ML algorithms, such
as logistic regression, support vector machines, and neural
networks, significantly improve stock selection capabilities
compared to traditional models [45], [46], [47]. For example, empirical analyses utilizing historical data from major
stock indices illustrate that while these models achieve commendable predictive accuracy, their long-term viability in
diverse market conditions remains unexplored [48], [49].
This gap is particularly concerning given the dynamic nature
of financial markets, which are influenced by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic trends and investor
sentiment [11], [50]. Furthermore, research incorporating
sentiment analysis into predictive models shows promise
in improving accuracy, but the scalability and robustness
of these methods in different asset classes warrant further
investigation [51], [52]. Although approaches utilizing longshort-term memory (LSTM) networks have demonstrated
impressive performance, their application to individual stock
movements remains largely unaddressed, indicating a crucial
need for user-friendly systems that enhance interpretability
and real-world applicability [53], [54]. Furthermore, studies
that integrate reinforcement learning (RL) with sentiment
analysis highlight its potential to optimize trading decisions
but suggest the need to explore various sentiment tools for
broader applicability [55], [56]. Additionally, the effectiveness of Belief Rule Based Expert Systems (BRBES) in
stock price prediction outperforms traditional techniques, but
there is a lack of clarity on the influence of varying market
conditions, which requires comparative analyzes to validate their efficacy [57]. Furthermore, the promising results
obtained from combining LSTM models with traditional trading strategies emphasize the need for continuous refinement
and deeper exploration of macroeconomic impacts [58], [59].
Heuristic search strategies combined with classification algorithms also indicate success in identifying relevant indicators
for stock returns, but the need for innovative predictors to
enhance future models persists [60].
However, many studies do not address how model complexity and market anomalies affect the performance of
trading strategies [61]. By merging machine learning with
multi-indicator strategies, this research seeks to fill these
gaps, providing a comprehensive framework that not only
optimizes trading performance, but also enhances understanding of model behavior in fluctuating market conditions.
Thus, the proposed research is crucial to advance algorithmic
trading methodologies, address identified shortcomings and
pave the way for more effective trading strategies in the
financial sector.


A. STEP 1: DATA ACQUISITION
In Step 1, focus on data acquisition, which is crucial to build
a robust algorithmic trading strategy. This step involves collecting historical and real-time data to create a comprehensive
data frame, specifically targeting the S&P 500 Index [62].
The quality and precision of these data significantly influence
the performance of subsequent analytical steps, including feature engineering and model training. By Objectives of Data
Acquisition are first, Historical Data: To analyze past performance and identify trends or patterns that can inform future
trading strategies. Second, Real-Time Data: To make timely
trading decisions based on the latest market conditions.
Lastly, Comprehensive Dataset to ensure a well-rounded
dataset that includes various attributes, such as price, volume,
and market conditions that the format has present in Table 1.

TABLE 1. Description of data.

later anupuren


a) Data Acquisition Process
i) Define the Stock Universe
(1) Identify the stocks that are part of the S&P
500 index.
SP500 = {sp1,sp2,sp3, . . . ,spn
}
spi
represents an individual stock in the S&P 500.
ii) Historical Data Retrieval
(1) Use the Yahoo Finance API to obtain historical
stock price data for each stock in the S&P 500.
(2) This includes daily price data over a specific period (for example, the last 10 years,
2010-2023).
iii) Data fields to Retrieve:
(1) Open Price: The price at the start of the trading
day.
(2) Close Price: The price at the end of the trading
day.
(3) High Price: The maximum price during the trading day.
(4) Low Price: The minimum price during the trading day.
(5) Volume: The number of shares traded during the
day.
iv) Data Structuring:
(1) Combine historical and real-time data into a
structured format, such as a data frame.
(2) This data frame will serve as the foundation
for subsequent steps in the trading strategy. The
structure of the data frame may include the
following:
DataFrame = {Date, Stock, Open, High, Low,Close,
Volume}


B. STEP 2: INITIATE NOVEL FEATURE ENGINEERING WITH
UNDERVALUED STOCKS CALCULATION
In this enhanced step of feature engineering, the goal is to
identify undervalued stocks using a combination of technical
indicators and financial ratios. The process ensures that the
stock meets both value-investment principles and technical
analysis criteria before passing on as undervalued.

a) Formula for Undervalued Stocks (US):
US=



if > S
1
150
X
150
i=1
ai >
1
200
X
200
i=1
ai
∧
1
200
X
200
i=1
ai
is trending up for at least 1 month
∧S >
1
50
X
50
i=1
ai >
1
150
X
150
i=1
ai ∧ S >
1
50
X
50
i=1
ai
∧S >L52LowX1.3 ∧ S > H52highX0.75
∧passes based on financial ratios and principles
where:
S = current price of the stock
ai = stock price for respective day i
L52Low = 52-week low price of the stock
H52high = 52-week high price of the stock
b) Financial Ratios and Principles Check for each stock in
the a), apply financial ratio checks: If the stock passes
the following criteria:
i) PEratio > MinPE
ii) PBratio < MaxPB
iii) Dividend Yield > Min Dividend Yield
iv) Earnings Growth > min earnings growth
v) Earnings Growth > min earnings growth
vi) Earnings Growth > min earnings growth
vii) Debt to Equity < max debt-to-equity
viii) Price to Sales < max price-to-sales
ix) Return on Equity > Min Return on Equity
x) Return on Equity > Min Return on Equity
xi) Price to Cash Flow > min price-to-cash-flow
xii) Price to Cash Flow > min price-to-cash-flow
xiii) Current ratio > Min current ratio
xiv) Quick ratio > min quick ratio
xv) Then move the stock to the final list of undervalued
stocks.
xvi) Otherwise, drop the stock.
Output: The final list of selected undervalued stocks that meet
both technical and financial criteria.


C. STEP 4: MODEL TRAINING AND EVALUATION
In this step, we focus on training the selected machine
learning model using the identified indicators and the target variable, which represents the investment opportunities
(e.g., undervalued stocks). The model learns to recognize
patterns and relationships within the data to make predictions.
Following the training process, we evaluate the model performance using various metrics, including accuracy, precision,
recall, F1 score, and error measures such as Mean Absolute
Error (MAE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE). These
metrics provide insights into the model’s effectiveness in
generating reliable trading signals and its ability to generalize
to unseen data, ultimately guiding investment decisions.
a) Model Training:
i) The model is trained using the selected indicators and
the target variable (e.g., undervalued stocks).
ii) Let X be the matrix of selected indicators and y be
the target variable.
iii) The model can be represented as: y − f (X; θ) where
f is the function that represents the model (eg, linear
regression, decision tree) and are the parameters of
the model.
b) Model Evaluation Metrics:
i) Accuracy = TP+TN
TP+
+
TN
FP+FN
ii) Precision = TP
TP
+FP
iii) Recall (Sensitivity) = TP
TP
+FN
iv) F1 Score = 2.
Precision
Precision
+
·Recall
Recall
where:
True positives (TP) = the number of correct positive
predictions.
True Negatives (TN) = The number of correct negative
predictions.
False positives (FP) = the number of incorrect positive
predictions.
False Negatives (FN) = The number of incorrect negative
predictions.


A. INITIATE FEATURE ENGINEERING WITH UNDERVALUED
STOCKS
This algorithm merges real-time data, historical stock prices,
and financial metrics to identify undervalued stocks in the
S&P 500 for algorithmic trading. The process begins by gathering historical data, such as open, closed, high, low prices,
and volume, for individual S&P 500 stocks, using the Yahoo
Finance API. The data are structured into a comprehensive
data set for further analysis. The next step applies novel
feature engineering by calculating ‘‘Undervalued Stocks’’
(US) using a formula based on key technical indicators and
stock price trends. Additional financial checks are performed
to evaluate ratios such as PE, PB, dividend yield, and debt-toequity to ensure that stocks meet sound financial principles.
Stocks passing both the technical and financial criteria are
moved to a final ‘‘BUY’’ list, providing a solid foundation for
trading decisions based on undervalued stock opportunities.
This systematic approach optimizes performance and minimizes risk in trading, as shown in Algorithm 1.

B. DATA PREPARATION
This research performs a quantitative analysis of the S&P
500 using data obtained from the Yahoo Finance API [63].
The methodology used aligns with Algorithm 1 and Figure. 1,
which begins by acquiring historical and real-time data to
construct a data frame comprising SP500 stocks. Subsequently, the algorithm goes through a series of condition
checks. First, it evaluates each stock against value investing
criteria, considering parameters such as the Price-to-Earnings
(PE) ratio and the Price-to-Book (PB) ratio in comparison to
industry standards. Stocks that meet these criteria advance to
the next stage, where technical analysis templates are applied,
assessing metrics such as stock price trends and 52-week
highs and lows. Those who pass this stage undergo scrutiny
based on financial ratios and principles, including dividend

Algorithm 1 Identify Undervalued Stocks
Input: Real-time data, volume, market data, Fact Sheet (i.e.,
book value, dividend yield)
Step 1: Data Acquisition Process
1. Define the stock universe.
SP500 = {sp1, sp2, sp3, . .., sp_n} // Individual stocks in the
S&P 500
2. Historical Data Retrieval
For each stock in SP500:
a. Use the Yahoo Finance API to fetch historical stock price
data for the last 10 years (2010-2023).
b. Retrieve the following data fields:
- Open Price
- Close price
- High price
- Low Price
Volume
3. Data Structuring
Combine historical and real-time data into a structured
format:
DataFrame = {Date, Stock, Open, High, Low, Close,
Volume}
Step 2: Initiate Novel Feature Engineering with Undervalued
Stocks Calculation
1. For each stock in DataFrame:
a. Calculate Undervalued Stocks (US)
2. Financial Ratios and Principles Check
For each stock:
a. Check the following financial ratios:
- PE_ratio > Min PE
- PB_ratio < Max PB
- Dividend Yield > min dividend yield
- Earnings growth > min earnings growth
- Debt to Equity < max debt-to-equity
- Price to Sales < max price-to-sales
- Return on equity > min return on equity
- Price-to-Cash Flow > Min Price-to-Cash Flow
- Current ratio > min current ratio
- Quick ratio > min quick ratio
3. Final selection
If the stock passes both technical and financial criteria:
Move the stock to the final list of undervalued stocks.
- Set the ‘BUY’ list of undervalued stocks.
Else:
- Reduce the stock.
Output:
The final ‘BUY’ list of selected undervalued stocks that meet
both technical and financial criteria.


yield, earnings growth, and debt-to-equity ratio. Stocks that
meet all the conditions emerge as the final list of selected
stocks. This comprehensive approach integrates fundamental analysis with technical indicators, improving the robustness
of stock selection. Research collects data over a decade,
from 2010 to 2023, ensuring a comprehensive analysis of
market trends and stock performance. During this period,
information is collected for approximately 500 companies
listed on the S&P 500 index, offering a broad representation
of the US stock market as presented in Table 2.
Moreover, in the realm of quantitative analysis for stock
selection, data preparation plays a crucial role in ensuring the
robustness and reliability of the subsequent machine learning
(ML) model [64] s. Algorithm 1, a crucial component of
this process, sets the stage for identifying undervalued stocks
based on predefined criteria. However, a common challenge
in this context arises when the output of Algorithm 1 produces
a relatively small number of selected stocks compared to
the total pool, resulting in unbalanced sample sizes [65].
This imbalance can significantly affect the performance of
ML models, particularly in cases where the minority group
(i.e. undervalued stocks) is underrepresented.
To address this issue, the synthetic minority sampling
technique (SMOTE) has emerged as a widely used sampling
technique [66]. SMOTE is specifically designed to enhance
the sample size of the minority group by generating synthetic
instances that resemble existing minority class observations.
By synthesizing new data points within the feature space,
SMOTE effectively mitigates the imbalance and ensures adequate representation of undervalued stocks in the data set.
Incorporating SMOTE into the data preparation pipeline for
Algorithm 1 not only facilitates a more balanced distribution
of samples, but also enhances the model’s ability to discern
patterns and make accurate predictions. Therefore, by using
SMOTE as a preprocessing step, researchers can improve the
efficacy and reliability of ML models to identify undervalued
stocks, ultimately contributing to more informed investment
decisions.


C. ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL INDICATOR FOR FEATURE
SELECTION USING CORRELATION ANALYSIS
Researchers refine the list of technical indicators by applying
feature selection. This involves reducing a larger set of trading
indicators, as shown in Table 3, to a smaller and more relevant
set of relevant indicators. When dealing with a large set of
technical indicators, some indicators may provide overlapping information or may not contribute significantly to the
predictive ability of the model. This redundancy can lead to
overfitting, where the model performs well on training data
but fails to generalize to unseen data. Feature selection helps
us to retain only the most informative and diverse indicators,
which in turn enhances the accuracy and interpretability of
the model.
1) CORRELATION FORMULA
The correlation between two trading indicators Ii and Ji
is
calculated using the Pearson correlation coefficient.
Cij =
CoV(Ii, Ij)
σ (Ii).σ(Ij)

TABLE 2. Data description to build ML model

later anupuren

TABLE 3. Technical indicators.

later anupuren


where:
• Cij is the correlation coefficient between indicators Ii
and Ji
• CoV(Ii, Ij) is the covariance between Ii and Ji
• σ (Ii) andσ(Ij) are the standard deviations Ii and Ji
,
respectively.
The correlation coefficient Cij ranges from -1 to 1:
• Cij = 1 indicates perfect positive correlation (the indicators move together),
• Cij = −1 indicates perfect negative correlation (the
indicators move in opposite directions),
• Cij = 0 indicates no linear correlation.

2) FEATURE SELECTION PROCESS
i) Start with 20 Trading Indicators:
(1) Initially, we consider a broad set of 20 technical
trading indicators.
I1, I2, I3, I4, I5, . . . ,I20
ii) Calculate Pairwise Correlations
We compute the pairwise correlation between each pair
of indicatorsIi and Ji
. This results in a correlation matrix,
which shows the correlation coefficients for every pair of
indicators
iii) Set a correlation threshold:
We define a correlation threshold, typically threshold =
0.75. If the correlation coefficient between two indicators Cij > 0.75, they are highly correlated, and one of
the indicators is deemed redundant.
iv) Select the final indicators:
After applying the correlation analysis, we are left with a
smaller subset of small indicators that are not correlated
and provide the most relevant information to predict
stock movements.
v) The final set of selected indicators:
I1, I5, I6, I10, I15, I18 = Moving Averages, Relative
Strength Index (RSI), Moving Average Convergence
Divergence, Bollinger Bands, On-Balance Volume
(OBV), Ichimoku Cloud

These indicators are diverse and capture different aspects
of the behavior of the stock price, ensuring that the model
has a well-rounded set of training features. Combining the
MA20_MA50, RSI, MACD, Bollinger bands, OBV, and
Ichimoku indicators provides a well-rounded trading strategy by leveraging the strengths of each tool as outlined in
Table 4. MA20_MA50 shows the direction of the trend,
RSI identifies overbought/oversold conditions, and MACD
highlights momentum. Bollinger bands track volatility, OBV
confirms trends through volume, and Ichimoku reveals support, resistance, and trend direction. Together, they offer a
comprehensive market analysis for more informed trading
decisions.

(1) Moving Averages:
(a) Simple Moving Average (SMA): =
1
n
P
n
i=1 Closei
(b) Exponential Moving Average (EMA): = α.Closet +
(1 − α).EMAt−1,where α = n+
2
1
(2) Relative Strength Index (RSI):
(a) 1 i = Closei − Closei−1
(b) Gaini = max(1 i, 0)
(c) Lossi = max(−1 i, 0)
(d) RS =
average
average
(
(
Gain
Lossn
n
)
)
(e) RSI = 100 - 1
100
+RS

TABLE 4. Pros and cons of the selected trading strategy.

later anupuren

(3) Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)
Oscillator:
(a) MACD line: MACD =EMA12 -EMA26
(b) Signal line: Signal =EMAMACD,signalperiod
(c) MACD histogram: Histogram = MACD - signal
(4) Bollinger Bands:
(a) Middle Band (SMA): Middle Band =SMAn
(b) Upper Band: Upper Band = Middle Band +κ.StdDev
(c) Lower Band: Lower Band = Middle Band -κ.StdDev
(5) On-Balance Volume (OBV):
(a) OBVi = OBVi−1 + Volumei
if Closei >Closei−1
(b) OBVi = OBVi−1 − Volumei
if Closei <Closei−1
(6) Ichimoku Cloud:
(a) Conversion Line: Conversion Line =
maxhighn
2
+minlown
(b) Base Line: Base Line =
maxhighm
2
+minlowm
(c) Leading Span A: LeadingSpanA =
ConversionLine
2
+BaseLine
(d) Leading Span B: LeadingSpanB =
maxhighz
2
+minlowz
(e) Leading Span: LeadingSpan = Close−y

D. MACHINE LEARNING MODEL ASSORTMENT
ALGORITHM
Algorithm 2, This algorithm presents an integrated approach
to stock price prediction using an assortment of machine
learning models. It systematically applies various models: Gradient Boosting Machines (GBM), Support Vector
Machines (SVM), Random Forest, Logistic Regression,
Neural Networks (NN), Decision Tree, K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) and Gaussian Naive Bayes—to historical and
real-time stock data. Each model is trained on a subset of
the data, evaluated using key performance metrics (Accuracy,
Precision, Recall, and F1-Score), and compared to identify
the optimal model for accurate stock predictions. By leveraging multiple machine learning techniques, this algorithm
improves predictive performance and adapts to the complex
dynamics of financial markets.



Algorithm 2 Machine Learning Model Assortment
Input:
• Historical and real-time stock data X, Labels Y
• Machine learning models: GBM, SVM, Random Forest,
Logistic Regression, Neural Networks, Decision Tree,
KNN, Gaussian Naive Bayes
1: for each model in {GBM, SVM, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, NN, Decision Tree, KNN, Gaussian Naive
Bayes} do
2: for each stock i = 1 to m do
3: Prepare training data Xtrain, test data Xtest , label sets
Ytrain, Xtest
4: Train the model on Xtrain, Ytrain
5: Use the trained model to predict stock labels Y =
model.predict (Xtest)
6: Evaluate performance metrics: Accuracy, Precision,
Recall, F1-Score
7: Store the performance results for the model
8: end for
9: end
10: Select the model with the best performance based on
evaluation metrics.
Output:
• Trained models, evaluated performance metrics (Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F1-Score)
• Output the trading signals for stocks Si where Si ∈ {1
(Buy), -1 (Sell), 0 (Hold)}


E. BACKTESTING
Backtesting is essential to assess the effectiveness of a trading
strategy by applying it to historical data [85], [86], [87].
In this process, portfolio performance is assessed by measuring the gains or losses of each trade over time. The equity
curve tracks the growth of the portfolio by updating with
each calculated return. Key performance metrics, such as total
return, maximum drawdown, and the Sharpe ratio, help gauge
the strategy’s profitability, risk management, and consistency.
This approach allows traders to fine-tune strategies before
deploying them in real-world trading environments.
• Portfolio Backtesting:
◦ Portfolio Performance: Returnst = Positiont
.
(Closet − Closet−1)
◦ Equity Curve: EquityCurvet = (1 + Returnst).
EquityCurvet−1
• Performance Metrics:
◦ Total Return: TotalReturn =EquityCurven1
◦ Maximum Drawdown: MaxDrawdown = min
(
EquityCurve
EquityCurve
cummax
) – 1
◦ Sharpe Ratio: SharpeRatio =
√
252. mean
std(Returns
(Returns
)


V. EXPERIMENTS
The experiments in this study start by identifying undervalued
stocks through both forward and backward testing methods.
Backward testing uses historical data to simulate how the
trading strategy would have performed in the past, while
forward testing applies the strategy to a period outside the
backtesting to ensure its predictive power in unseen data.
This approach helps to validate the reliability of the feature
engineering process in selecting undervalued stocks. Once
the undervalued stocks are identified, the study proceeds
to compare the performance of multiple machine learning
models. Gradient Boosting Machines (GBM), Support Vector
Machines (SVM), Random Forest, Neural Networks, and
other algorithms are applied to determine the most effective
model to predict stock performance. Models are trained and
evaluated on the basis of their accuracy, precision, recall, and
other relevant metrics.
Finally, the performance of each model is presented using
portfolio backtesting, where key performance indicators such
as total returns, maximum drawdown, and Sharpe ratio are
calculated. Additionally, performance metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score are evaluated to assess
the predictive capacity of each model. This comprehensive
evaluation helps determine the best machine learning model
for optimizing trading strategies, offering robust portfolio
performance in both past and future market conditions.


A. BACKWARD TEST AND FORWARD TEST
First, the backward test period, evaluated from January 1,
2022, to December 31, 2022, assesses the model’s performance on historical data. Second, the forward test period,
tracked from January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, monitors its performance on new data. Within the forward test
period lies the test date of January 2023, allowing comparison of the model’s performance on January 2023 data to
its historical performance. The table shows the performance
of three stock indices, the S&P 500, the NASDAQ 100,
and the Dow Jones, showing the number of components,
components selected by the model, win / loss / neutral
ratios, and cumulative returns for both the backward and
forward test periods. The win/loss/neutral ratio signifies how
often the model selections surpassed, lagged or matched the
benchmark return, while the cumulative return reflects the
total return of the model selections during the test periods, as shown in Table 5 and shows the forward test since
Jan 2020 – June 2024 by DCA performance and recommended stocks overview in Table 6.


B. IDENTIFYING UNDERVALUED STOCKS APPROACH TO A
FEATURE ENGINEERING
First, the S&P 500 was selected, which is one of the most
important economic indexes in the United States. Comprising
the 500 largest companies by market capitalization, the S&P
500 accounts for around 80% of the total value of the US
stock market. Developed by Standard & Poor’s, a subsidiary

TABLE 5. Backward test and forward test.

later anupuren

FIGURE 1. S&P 500.

later anupuren

FIGURE 2. NASDAQ100.

later anupuren

FIGURE 3. Dow Jones.

later anupuren

of McGraw-Hill, in 1957, the S&P 500 is widely used as an
indicator of the state of the American economy [88]. Our
system filtered 503 stocks in the S&P 500 according to the

TABLE 6. DCA performance and recommended stock overview

later anupuren


algorithm and produced four results. After conducting a yearlong test, it was found that the system had a 100% win rate.
The cumulative return was calculated to be 50%. Furthermore, a forward test was performed, and it was discovered
that the cumulative return was 13.72% if these four stocks
were purchased on January 1, 2023, compared to their prices
on January 31, 2023 as shown in Figure 1.
Second, the researchers screened the NASDAQ 100, a large
US growth stock index determined by market capitalization.
The index reflects the profits of the leading U.S. corporations
and is considered one of the world’s most important stock
indices. The system filtered 100 stocks using the NASDAQ
100 algorithm and produced five results, as shown in the
figure. 2. A 100% win rate was found if these five stocks
were purchased in January 2022 and compared to their prices
in December 2022. The cumulative return was calculated
to be 15.60%. A forward test was also performed, resulting in a cumulative return of 10.21%. The wind ratio was determined to be 4:1, or 80%. As shown in Figure. 3. Third,
the researchers screened the Dow Jones, the oldest stock market index in the United States. The index is calculated using
the prices of stable-performing companies and is considered
a nationally recognized industry leader. Our system filtered
30 stocks using the Dow Jones algorithm and produced three
results. A 66% win rate, 33% draw rate, and 0% loss rate
were found if these three stocks were purchased in January
2022 and compared to their prices in December 2022. A forward test was performed, and the win rate was found to be
66%, the draw rate was 33%, and the loss rate was 0%. The
cumulative return was calculated to be Dow Jones 4.62% and
2.36% for the test and the forward test, respectively.

C. ASSORTMENT OF MACHINE LEARNING
This research explores a variety of machine learning (ML)
models to improve the identification of undervalued stocks, presenting readers with a comprehensive evaluation of their
efficacy and practical utility. By scrutinizing multiple models,
each characterized by unique strengths and limitations, this
study offers crucial insights for judicious model selection tailored to specific requirements. Gradient Boosting Machines
(GBM) emerge as a standout performer, showcasing impressive metrics across the board, with an accuracy of 0.731,
precision of 0.74, recall of 0.73, and F1-score of 0.72. The
GBM ensemble approach and the ability to handle complex
relationships make it a robust choice for predictive modeling.
Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Random Forest display
comparable accuracy, with SVM demonstrating superior precision, while slightly lag in recall and F1 score compared
to Random Forest. SVM achieved an accuracy of 0.687,
a precision of 0.71, a recall of 0.69, and an F1 score of
0.67, while Random Forest achieved an accuracy of 0.687,
a precision of 0.68, a recall of 0.69, and an F1 score of 0.66.
This underscores the nuanced trade-offs inherent in classification accuracy optimization. Logistic regression strikes a
balance between simplicity and performance, achieving an
accuracy of 0.678, with precision, recall, and F1 score hovering around 0.68 and 0.67 respectively. Neural networks (NN)
offer flexibility in the capture of intricate relationships, albeit
with a slightly reduced accuracy rate of 0.662. Decision trees
offer interpretability, but may be prone to overfitting, with an
accuracy of 0.638, and a balanced precision, recall, and F1
score of approximately 0.64 and 0.63, respectively. K-Nearest
Neighbors (KNN) exhibit decreased accuracy and performance due to their reliance on proximity-based classification,
with an accuracy of 0.463, a precision of 0.42, recall of 0.46,
and an F1 score of 0.43. Gaussian naive Bayes, despite its
computational efficiency, demonstrates limited precision and
efficacy in this context, with an accuracy of 0.065 and very
low recall and F1 score metrics. By elucidating the strengths
and limitations of each model, this research equips the reader
with the knowledge necessary to make informed decisions
regarding model selection, thus improving the efficacy and
efficiency of undervalued stock identification processes in
financial markets, as shown in Table 7 and Figure 4.


D. COMPARISON BETWEEN APPROACHED ALGORITHM
TRADING AND THE TRADITIONAL TRADING INDICATOR
In this section, we present a comprehensive evaluation of the
performance of our proposed algorithmic trading approach
in comparison to six widely recognized traditional trading
indicators: Moving Average (MA), Relative Strength Index
(RSI), Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD),
Bollinger Bands, On-Balance Volume (OBV) and Ichimoku.
The analysis uses data from Apple’s stock, drawn from the
largest S&P 500 index, covering the period from January 2,
2014, to October 14, 2024. To facilitate a clear comparison, we based our evaluation on the total returns generated from an initial investment of $10,000. This approach
allows us to quantify the effectiveness of each trading
strategy in terms of profitability over the specified time
frame. The results, summarized in Table 8 and illustrated

TABLE 7. Machine learning test performance details

later anupuren

FIGURE 4. Analyze the radar graph of machine learning test performance.

later anupuren


in Figures 5-11, reveal significant disparities in performance
among the various methods. The findings indicate that the
algorithmic trading approach achieved a remarkable total
return of 901%, substantially exceeding the returns generated by all traditional indicators. For example, MACD,
which emerged as the top-performing traditional indicator with the highest performance, yielded a total return
of 598%. Other indicators, such as the RSI and Ichimoku,
produced returns of 329% and 529%, respectively. These
results highlight the algorithm’s superior ability to capitalize on market opportunities and navigate the complexities
of stock price movements. Consistent performance of the

TABLE 8. Comparison of the total return between the approach to
algorithm trading and the traditional trading indicator

later anupuren


FIGURE 5. MA20_MA50.

later anupuren


algorithmic approach underscores its potential to leverage
advanced computational techniques and complex pattern
recognition, which are often beyond the capabilities of traditional indicators. Although traditional trading strategies rely
primarily on historical price and volume data, our algorithm
incorporates a wider range of data inputs and employs sophisticated machine learning techniques to identify and exploit
market trends. This capability allows for a more dynamic and
responsive trading strategy, which is particularly valuable in
the context of rapidly changing financial markets.
Furthermore, comparative analysis emphasizes the growing importance of algorithmic trading methodologies in the
financial sector. As markets become increasingly complex

FIGURE 6. Relative Strength Index (RSI)

later anupuren

and volatile, traders are seeking more effective tools to
enhance their investment strategies. The results of this study
suggest that the adoption of advanced algorithms can significantly improve overall profitability and provide a competitive
edge in trading.
The result of this analysis not only demonstrates the
effectiveness of our algorithmic trading approach, but also
reinforces the need for traders to embrace innovative methodologies that can adapt to the evolving landscape of financial
markets. By integrating advanced algorithms into their trading strategies, investors can optimize their decision-making
processes and achieve superior investment outcomes.

E. KEY FINDINGS
The results of this comparative analysis clearly indicate that
the algorithmic trading approach offers significant advantages over traditional trading indicators when applied to
Tesla’s stock over the specified period. The data reveal several
key findings that highlight the superiority in various aspects.
First, the algorithmic trading strategy achieved a remarkable total return of 901%, substantially outpacing all
traditional indicators. In comparison, the Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD), which was the
top-performing traditional indicator, yielded a total return of
598%, showcasing the algorithm’s effectiveness in capitalizing on market opportunities. Furthermore, the algorithm
maintained a consistently higher level of profitability
throughout the testing period. Although other indicators, such

FIGURE 7. Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD).

later anupuren

as the relative strength index (RSI) and Ichimoku, also performed well with returns of 329% and 529%, respectively,
they ultimately fell short of the algorithm’s sustained performance. In addition to profitability, the algorithmic approach
integrated robust risk management strategies, mitigating
potential losses, and, thereby, enhancing its effectiveness.
This comprehensive focus on risk is particularly valuable
in volatile market conditions, which often pose significant
challenges to traditional trading strategies.
Second, the algorithm demonstrated a remarkable ability to
adapt to changing market conditions during the study period.
This adaptability is critical for long-term investment success,
especially in a dynamic environment such as the stock market,
where conditions can change rapidly. Lastly, the algorithm
uses large data sets and intricate patterns, enabling a more
nuanced understanding of market movements. On the contrary, traditional indicators rely primarily on historical price
and volume data, which can limit their effectiveness in rapidly
changing market environments.
The results in this chapter indicate that these findings
underscore the potential for algorithmic trading approaches
to revolutionize investment strategies, providing traders with
advanced tools that improve decision-making and optimize
performance. As the financial landscape continues to evolve,
adopting these innovative trading algorithms may become
essential to achieve superior investment outcomes. This
research not only contributes valuable information on the

FIGURE 8. Bollinger bands.

later anupuren

effectiveness of algorithmic trading compared to traditional
methods but also encourages further exploration and application of these strategies in real-world trading scenarios.



VI. DISCUSSION
The integration of machine learning techniques with
multi-indicator strategies in algorithmic trading represents
a significant advancement in the field, as evidenced by
the findings of this research. Empirical results demonstrate
that the proposed framework not only enhances predictive accuracy but also optimizes trading performance under
various market conditions. This dual benefit underscores
the potential of hybrid models that leverage the strengths
of traditional technical analysis and modern computational
methods. One of the key insights from this study is the
dynamic selection of indicators, which allows for a more
nuanced understanding of market trends. Traditional trading
strategies often rely on fixed sets of indicators, which can
limit their effectiveness in rapidly changing environments.
On the contrary, our approach adapts to market conditions,
enabling traders to respond more effectively to fluctuations
and anomalies. This adaptability is crucial in the volatile
financial landscape, where the ability to pivot quickly can significantly affect investment outcomes. Moreover, the positive
impact of the multi-indicator approach on interpretability and
decision-making processes cannot be overstated. The nature
of many machine learning models has been a barrier to their

FIGURE 9. On-Balance Volume (OBV)

later anupuren

widespread adoption among practitioners [89], [90]. By providing clearer insights into the predictions of the model,
our framework fosters greater trust and confidence among
traders, which is essential for the successful implementation
of algorithmic trading strategies. This aspect of our research
highlights the importance of not only developing sophisticated models, but also ensuring that they are accessible and
understandable to users.
In contrast, the application of long- and short-term memory
(LSTM) networks in algorithmic trading has shown mixed
results in previous studies [10], [61], [91]. For example,
while LSTMs are designed to capture temporal dependencies
in sequential data, this research demonstrated that LSTMs
often struggle with overfitting, particularly when trained on
limited datasets [92], [93], [94]. Their findings indicated
that while LSTMs could achieve high accuracy in predicting stock price movements, the models frequently failed to
translate this accuracy into profitable trading strategies due
to their complexity and the need for extensive hyperparameter tuning. Furthermore, LSTMs can be computationally
intensive, making them less suitable for real-time trading
applications [95], [96], [97], [98]. In contrast, our proposed
multi-indicator framework emphasizes computational efficiency and flexibility, allowing for quicker adaptations to
market changes without the extensive resource requirements
associated with LSTM models [99]. This is particularly relevant in high-frequency trading environments, where speed

FIGURE 10. On-Balance Volume (OBV)

later anupuren

and adaptability are paramount. Another limitation of LSTMs
highlighted in the literature is their interpretability. Although
they can model complex relationships in data, the lack of
transparency in how LSTMs arrive at their predictions can
hinder their practical application in trading [100], [101].
In our research, the multi-indicator approach not only
improves predictive accuracy but also enhances interpretability, providing traders with insights into the rationale behind
model predictions. This transparency is crucial to fostering trust and facilitating informed decision-making among
traders. In addition, this paper integrates machine learning
with traditional valuation metrics like PE and PB ratios to
identify undervalued stocks, contrasting with [102] focus on
the UMO factor, which captures mispricing through corporate
financing actions. While the current research emphasizes
quantitative analysis, the UMO studies highlight behavioral
finance’s role in market dynamics and [103] provides a deeper
exploration of behavioral factors influencing market mispricing. Both approaches aim to enhance predictive power
and investment strategies, suggesting that a hybrid model
combining machine learning techniques with insights from
behavioral finance could lead to superior stock selection
and performance outcomes, addressing the complexities of
market behavior and misevaluation.
Overall, this research contributes valuable insights to
the field of algorithmic trading by proposing a flexible
and computationally efficient model that optimizes trading

FIGURE 11. Approached algorithm trading

later anupuren

performance while enhancing the understanding of market
dynamics. As the financial landscape continues to evolve,
the adoption of innovative trading algorithms that leverage machine learning and multi-indicator strategies will
be essential for achieving superior investment outcomes.
We encourage further exploration and validation of these
methodologies to drive advances in algorithmic trading practices, ultimately benefiting both individual and institutional
investors.


VII. CONCLUSION
This research paper presents a comprehensive exploration
of integrating machine learning with multi-indicator strategies in algorithmic trading. The findings indicate that while
traditional trading methods have made significant strides,
they often struggle to maintain predictive accuracy and
adaptability in rapidly changing market dynamics. Using
advanced machine learning algorithms, the proposed framework shows marked improvements in predicting stock movements and optimizing trading strategies under various market
conditions.
In addressing the research questions, we found that integrating machine learning with multi-indicator strategies
significantly enhances the predictive accuracy and overall
performance of algorithmic trading models. This improvement is attributed to the dynamic selection of indicators,
which allows a nuanced understanding of market trends and mitigates the limitations associated with fixed indicator sets.
Furthermore, the multi-indicator approach positively impacts
the interpretability and decision-making processes of traders.
By providing deeper insights into model predictions, this
approach helps demystify the ‘‘black box’’ nature of machine
learning, fostering greater trust and confidence among
practitioners.
Despite these promising results, the study acknowledges
certain limitations, such as reliance on specific datasets
and the need for broader validation across different asset
classes. Future research should focus on refining these models, enhancing their scalability, and exploring the integration
of explainable AI techniques to improve transparency in
decision-making processes.
In conclusion, this research contributes valuable information to the field of algorithmic trading by proposing a
flexible and computationally efficient model that optimizes
trading performance and enhances understanding of market
dynamics. As the financial landscape continues to evolve,
adopting innovative trading algorithms that leverage machine
learning and multi-indicator strategies will be essential for
achieving superior investment outcomes. We encourage further exploration and validation of these methodologies to
drive advances in algorithmic trading practices.

LIMITATIONS AND FURTHER RESEARCH
This research advances the integration of machine learning
with multi-indicator strategies in algorithmic trading, yet
several limitations exist. Reliance on specific data sets may
restrict the generalizability of the findings in different markets. Additionally, the computational complexity of advanced
algorithms can hinder the application in real time. Overfitting
remains a concern, as models may not generalize well to
unseen data. To address these issues, future research should
explore diverse datasets, optimize models for real-time use,
and incorporate explainable AI techniques to enhance interpretability. Longitudinal studies and the inclusion of external
factors could further improve predictive capabilities and
model robustness.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST
The authors declare that the research was conducted in the
absence of any commercial or financial relationship that
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
 
DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT
Original contributions presented in the study are included in
the article/supplementary material; further inquiries can be
directed to the corresponding author.


REFERENCES
[1] R. A. A. Aguirre and A. A. A. Aguirre, ‘‘Behavioral finance: Evolution
from the classical theory and remarks,’’ J. Econ. Surv., vol. 38, no. 2,
pp. 452–475, Apr. 2024.
[2] Q. Xiao and B. Ihnaini, ‘‘Stock trend prediction using sentiment analysis,’’ PeerJ Comput. Sci., vol. 9, p. e1293, Mar. 2023.
[3] M. Rodríguez-Ibánez, A. Casánez-Ventura, F. Castejón-Mateos,
and P.-M. Cuenca-Jiménez, ‘‘A review on sentiment analysis from
social media platforms,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 223, Aug. 2023,
Art. no. 119862.
[4] A. Guezzaz, Y. Asimi, M. Azrour, and A. Asimi, ‘‘Mathematical validation of proposed machine learning classifier for heterogeneous traffic
and anomaly detection,’’ Big Data Mining Anal., vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 18–24,
Mar. 2021.
[5] Z. Wang, X. Xiao, and S. Rajasekaran, ‘‘Novel and efficient randomized
algorithms for feature selection,’’ Big Data Mining Anal., vol. 3, no. 3,
pp. 208–224, Sep. 2020.
[6] M. Bouazizi and T. Ohtsuki, ‘‘Multi-class sentiment analysis on Twitter:
Classification performance and challenges,’’ Big Data Mining Anal.,
vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 181–194, Sep. 2019.
[7] Y. Shi, Y. Zheng, K. Guo, and X. Ren, ‘‘Relationship between herd
behavior and Chinese stock market fluctuations during a bullish period
based on complex networks,’’ Int. J. Inf. Technol. Decis. Making, vol. 21,
no. 1, pp. 405–421, Jan. 2022.
[8] D. Lv, Y. Gong, J. Chen, and Y. Xiang, ‘‘Recommendation algorithm of
industry stock trading model with TODIM,’’ Int. J. Inf. Technol. Decis.
Making, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 1301–1334, May 2024.
[9] X. Yuan, J. Yuan, T. Jiang, and Q. U. Ain, ‘‘Integrated longterm stock selection models based on feature selection and machine
learning algorithms for China stock market,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 8,
pp. 22672–22685, 2020.
[10] M.-C. Lee, J.-W. Chang, S.-C. Yeh, T.-L. Chia, J.-S. Liao, and
X.-M. Chen, ‘‘Applying attention-based BiLSTM and technical indicators in the design and performance analysis of stock trading strategies,’’
Neural Comput. Appl., vol. 34, no. 16, pp. 13267–13279, Aug. 2022.
[11] Z. Pourahmadi, D. Fareed, and H. R. Mirzaei, ‘‘A novel stock trading
model based on reinforcement learning and technical analysis,’’ Ann.
Data Sci., vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 1653–1674, Oct. 2024.
[12] G.-M. Chatziloizos, D. Gunopulos, and K. Konstantinou, ‘‘Deep learning
for stock market prediction using sentiment and technical analysis,’’
Social Netw. Comput. Sci., vol. 5, no. 5, p. 446, Apr. 2024.
[13] S. A. Mohammed, ‘‘Day trading strategy based on transformer model,
technical indicators and multiresolution analysis,’’ Int. J. Adv. Comput.
Sci. Appl., vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 1–13, 2024.
[14] J. Kaur and K. Dharni, ‘‘Data mining–based stock price prediction using
hybridization of technical and fundamental analysis,’’ Data Technol.
Appl., vol. 57, no. 5, pp. 780–800, Nov. 2023.
[15] S. Agrawal, N. Kumar, G. Rathee, C. A. Kerrache, C. T. Calafate, and
M. Bilal, ‘‘Improving stock market prediction accuracy using sentiment
and technical analysis,’’ Electron. Commerce Res., vol. 2024, pp. 1–24,
Jun. 2024.
[16] K. A. Suhail, S. Sankar, A. S. Kumar, T. Nestor, N. F. Soliman,
A. D. Algarni, W. El-Shafai, A. El-Samie, and E. Fathi, ‘‘Stockmarket
trading based onmarket sentiments and reinforcement learning,’’ Comput., Mater. Continua, vol. 70, no. 1, pp. 1–16, 2022.
[17] A. Gupta, K. Joshi, M. Patel, and V. Pratap, ‘‘Visualization and forecasting of stock’s closing price using machine learning,’’ Multimedia Tools
Appl., vol. 83, pp. 72471–72489, Feb. 2024.
[18] H. Yang, Y. Zhu, and Q. Huang, ‘‘A multi-indicator feature selection
for CNN-driven stock index prediction,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Neural Inf.
Process., 2018, pp. 35–46.
[19] T. Salkar, A. Shinde, N. Tamhankar, and N. Bhagat, ‘‘Algorithmic trading
using technical indicators,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Commun. Inf. Comput.
Technol. (ICCICT), 2021, pp. 1–6.
[20] N. Sukma and S. N. Chakkrit, ‘‘Trading strategies development
using combined enhanced voter-method with technical indicators and
machine learning,’’ ICIC Exp. Lett., B, Appl., vol. 15, no. 5, p. 427,
2024.
[21] L. Chen, Y. Chen, C. Tan, Y. Luo, H. Dou, and Y. Yang, ‘‘Cross-chain
asset trading scheme for notaries based on edge cloud storage,’’ J. Cloud
Comput., vol. 13, no. 1, p. 90, Apr. 2024.
[22] N. Sukma and C. S. Namahoot, ‘‘Enhancing trading strategies: A multiindicator analysis for profitable algorithmic trading,’’ Comput. Econ.,
vol. 2024, pp. 1–34, Aug. 2024.
[23] G. Iovane, A. Amorosia, M. Leone, M. Nappi, and G. Tortora,
‘‘Multi indicator approach via mathematical inference for price dynamics in information fusion context,’’ Inf. Sci., vol. 373, pp. 183–199,
Dec. 2016.
[24] Z. Yang, K. Hao, X. Cai, L. Chen, and L. Ren, ‘‘Prediction of stock trading
signal based on multi-indicator channel convolutional neural networks,’’
in Proc. IEEE 8th Data Driven Control Learn. Syst. Conf. (DDCLS),
May 2019, pp. 912–917.
[25] S. Mukherjee, B. Sadhukhan, N. Sarkar, D. Roy, and S. De, ‘‘Stock market
prediction using deep learning algorithms,’’ CAAI Trans. Intell. Technol.,
vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 82–94, 2023.
[26] D. Karzanov, ‘‘Headline-driven classification and local interpretation for
market outperformance and low-risk stock prediction,’’ Comput. Econ.,
vol. 64, no. 2, pp. 769–788, Aug. 2024.
[27] J. Behera, A. K. Pasayat, H. Behera, and P. Kumar, ‘‘Prediction based
mean-value-at-risk portfolio optimization using machine learning regression algorithms for multi-national stock markets,’’ Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell.,
vol. 120, Apr. 2023, Art. no. 105843.
[28] S. P. John and R. D. Villiers, ‘‘Factors affecting the success of marketing
in higher education: A relationship marketing perspective,’’ J. Marketing
Higher Educ., vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 875–894, Jul. 2024.
[29] S. M.-F. Yen and Y.-L. Hsu, ‘‘Profitability of technical analysis in financial and commodity futures markets—A reality check,’’ Decis. Support
Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 128–139, Dec. 2010.
[30] S. T. Kadkhoda and B. Amiri, ‘‘A hybrid network analysis and machine
learning model for enhanced financial distress prediction,’’ IEEE Access,
vol. 12, pp. 52759–52777, 2024.
[31] X. Zhang, X. Ai, X. Wang, G. Zong, and J. Zhang, ‘‘A study on the
effects of digital finance on green low-carbon circular development based
on machine learning models,’’ Mathematics, vol. 11, no. 18, p. 3903,
Sep. 2023.
[32] X. Lei, U. H. Mohamad, A. Sarlan, M. Shutaywi, Y. I. Daradkeh, and
H. O. Mohammed, ‘‘Development of an intelligent information system for
financial analysis depend on supervised machine learning algorithms,’’
Inf. Process. Manage., vol. 59, no. 5, Sep. 2022, Art. no. 103036.
[33] T. T. T. Pham and H.-G. Doan, ‘‘An optimal knowledge distillation for
formulating an effective defense model against membership inference
attacks,’’ Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl., vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 1–11, 2024.
[34] Q. Xue, Y. Ling, and B. Tian, ‘‘Portfolio optimization model for gold
and bitcoin based on weighted unidirectional dual-layer LSTM model
and SMA-slope strategy,’’ Comput. Intell. Neurosci., vol. 2022, Jun. 2022,
Art. no. 1869897.
[35] D. K. Padhi, N. Padhy, A. K. Bhoi, J. Shafi, and S. H. Yesuf, ‘‘An
intelligent fusion model with portfolio selection and machine learning for
stock market prediction,’’ Comput. Intell. Neurosci., vol. 2022, Jun. 2022,
Art. no. 7588303.
[36] P. Rebentrost and S. Lloyd, ‘‘Quantum computational finance: Quantum algorithm for portfolio optimization,’’ KI-Künstliche Intelligenz,
vol. 2024, pp. 1–12, Aug. 2024.
[37] R. Orús, S. Mugel, and E. Lizaso, ‘‘Quantum computing for finance:
Overview and prospects,’’ Rev. Phys., vol. 4, Nov. 2019, Art. no. 100028.
[38] T. Martins, A. M. de Almeida, E. Cardoso, and L. Nunes, ‘‘Explainable
artificial intelligence (XAI): A systematic literature review on taxonomies
and applications in finance,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 618–629, 2024.
[39] M. E. Mahjouby, M. T. Bennani, M. Lamrini, B. Bossoufi,
T. A. H. Alghamdi, and M. E. Far, ‘‘Machine learning algorithms
for forecasting and categorizing euro-to-dollar exchange rates,’’ IEEE
Access, vol. 12, pp. 74211–74217, 2024.
[40] P. Cao and X. He, ‘‘Machine learning solutions for fast real estate derivatives pricing,’’ Comput. Econ., vol. 64, no. 4, pp. 2003–2032, Oct. 2024.
[41] B. Zhan, S. Zhang, H. S. Du, and X. Yang, ‘‘Exploring statistical arbitrage
opportunities using machine learning strategy,’’ Comput. Econ., vol. 60,
no. 3, pp. 861–882, Oct. 2022.
[42] B. Diallo, A. Bagudu, and Q. Zhang, ‘‘Fama-french three versus five,
which model is better? A machine learning approach,’’ J. Forecasting,
vol. 42, no. 6, pp. 1461–1475, Sep. 2023.
[43] S. García-Méndez, F. D. Arriba-Pérez, A. Barros-Vila, and
F. J. González-Castaño, ‘‘Detection of temporality at discourse level on
financial news by combining natural language processing and machine
learning,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 197, Jul. 2022, Art. no. 116648.
[44] W. Wei and Q. Zhang, ‘‘Evaluation of rural financial ecological environment based on machine learning and improved neural network,’’ Neural
Comput. Appl., vol. 34, no. 12, pp. 9335–9352, Jun. 2022.
[45] P. Chen, Z. Boukouvalas, and R. Corizzo, ‘‘A deep fusion model for
stock market prediction with news headlines and time series data,’’ Neural
Comput. Appl., vol. 36, pp. 21229–21271, Aug. 2024.
[46] A. Sadeghi, A. Daneshvar, and M. Madanchi Zaj, ‘‘Combined ensemble
multi-class SVM and fuzzy NSGA-II for trend forecasting and trading in
forex markets,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 185, Dec. 2021, Art. no. 115566.
[47] S. Bhanja and A. Das, ‘‘A black swan event-based hybrid model for Indian
stock markets’ trends prediction,’’ Innov. Syst. Softw. Eng., vol. 20, no. 2,
pp. 121–135, Jun. 2024.
[48] E. Barucci, M. Bonollo, F. Poli, and E. Rroji, ‘‘A machine learning
algorithm for stock picking built on information based outliers,’’ Expert
Syst. Appl., vol. 184, Dec. 2021, Art. no. 115497.
[49] J. Ayala, M. García-Torres, J. L. V. Noguera, F. Gómez-Vela, and
F. Divina, ‘‘Technical analysis strategy optimization using a machine
learning approach in stock market indices,’’ Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 225,
Aug. 2021, Art. no. 107119.
[50] T.-I. Theodorou, A. Zamichos, M. Skoumperdis, A. Kougioumtzidou,
K. Tsolaki, D. Papadopoulos, T. Patsios, G. Papanikolaou,
A. Konstantinidis, A. Drosou, and D. Tzovaras, ‘‘An AI-enabled
stock prediction platform combining news and social sensing with
financial statements,’’ Future Internet, vol. 13, no. 6, p. 138, May 2021.
[51] G. Sharma, S. Vidalis, P. Mankar, N. Anand, Minakshi, and S. Kumar,
‘‘Automated passive income from stock market using machine learning
and big data analytics with security aspects,’’ Multimedia Tools Appl.,
vol. 2024, pp. 1–28, May 2024.
[52] V. Gupta and E. Kumar, ‘‘AO-SAKEL: Arithmetic optimization-based
self-adaptive kernel extreme learning for international trade prediction,’’
Evolving Syst., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 829–848, Jun. 2024.
[53] M. Fisichella and F. Garolla, ‘‘Can deep learning improve technical
analysis of forex data to predict future price movements?’’ IEEE Access,
vol. 9, pp. 153083–153101, 2021.
[54] S.-Y. Kuo and Y.-H. Chou, ‘‘Building intelligent moving average-based
stock trading system using Metaheuristic algorithms,’’ IEEE Access,
vol. 9, pp. 140383–140396, 2021.
[55] A. Maratkhan, I. Ilyassov, M. Aitzhanov, M. F. Demirci, and
A. M. Ozbayoglu, ‘‘Deep learning-based investment strategy: Technical
indicator clustering and residual blocks,’’ Soft Comput., vol. 25, no. 7,
pp. 5151–5161, Apr. 2021.
[56] K. Guo and H. Xie, ‘‘Deep learning in finance assessing Twitter sentiment
impact and prediction on stocks,’’ PeerJ Comput. Sci., vol. 10, p. e2018,
May 2024.
[57] T. Kabbani and E. Duman, ‘‘Deep reinforcement learning approach
for trading automation in the stock market,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 10,
pp. 93564–93574, 2022.
[58] M. Zubair, J. Ali, M. Alhussein, S. Hassan, K. Aurangzeb, and M. Umair,
‘‘An improved machine learning-driven framework for cryptocurrencies
price prediction with sentimental cautioning,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 12,
pp. 51395–51418, 2024.
[59] M. Beniwal, A. Singh, and N. Kumar, ‘‘Forecasting multistep daily stock
prices for long-term investment decisions: A study of deep learning
models on global indices,’’ Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell., vol. 129, Mar. 2024,
Art. no. 107617.
[60] E. Hossain, M. S. Hossain, P.-O. Zander, and K. Andersson, ‘‘Machine
learning with belief rule-based expert systems to predict stock price
movements,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 206, Nov. 2022, Art. no. 117706.
[61] I. Botunac, J. Bosna, and M. Matetić, ‘‘Optimization of traditional stock
market strategies using the LSTM hybrid approach,’’ Information, vol. 15,
no. 3, p. 136, Feb. 2024.
[62] T. S. T. Buansing, A. Golan, and A. Ullah, ‘‘An information-theoretic
approach for forecasting interval-valued SP500 daily returns,’’ Int. J.
Forecasting, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 800–813, Jul. 2020.
[63] J. Lee and C.-F. Lee, ‘‘Data collection, presentation, and Yahoo! finance,’’
in Essentials of Excel VBA, Python, and R (Financial Statistics and
Portfolio Analysis). Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2023, pp. 19–80.
[64] Y. Bao and S. Yang, ‘‘Two novel SMOTE methods for solving imbalanced
classification problems,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 5816–5823, 2023.
[65] Y. Li, Y. Wang, T. Li, B. Li, and X. Lan, ‘‘SP-SMOTE: A novel space
partitioning based synthetic minority oversampling technique,’’ Knowl.-
Based Syst., vol. 228, Sep. 2021, Art. no. 107269.
[66] M. H. Kotb and R. Ming, ‘‘Comparing SMOTE family techniques in predicting insurance premium defaulting using machine learning models,’’
Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl., vol. 12, no. 9, pp. 621–629, 2021.
[67] R. Bhargavi, S. Gumparthi, and R. Anith, ‘‘Relative strength index for
developing effective trading strategies in constructing optimal portfolio,’’
Int. J. Appl. Eng. Res., vol. 12, no. 19, pp. 8926–8936, 2017.
[68] Y. Ni, Y.-C. Liao, and P. Huang, ‘‘Momentum in the Chinese stock market:
Evidence from stochastic oscillator indicators,’’ Emerg. Markets Finance
Trade, vol. 51, no. 1, pp. S99–S110, Jan. 2015.
[69] M. Maitah, P. Procházka, M. Čermák, and K. Šrédl, ‘‘Commodity channel
index: Evaluation of trading rule of agricultural commodities,’’ Int. J.
Econ. Financial Issues, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 176–178, Jan. 2016.
[70] T. Gokcek, I. Sengor, and O. Erdinc, ‘‘A novel multi-hierarchical bidding
strategy for peer-to-peer energy trading among communities,’’ IEEE
Access, vol. 10, pp. 23798–23807, 2022.
[71] P. K. Narayan, H. A. Ahmed, and S. Narayan, ‘‘Do momentum-based
trading strategies work in the commodity futures markets?’’ J. Futures
Markets, vol. 35, no. 9, pp. 868–891, Sep. 2015.
[72] Y. Li and Y. Chen, ‘‘Enhancing a stock timing strategy by reinforcement
learning,’’ IAENG Int. J. Comput. Sci., vol. 48, no. 4, pp. 1–10, 2021.
[73] N. H. Hung, ‘‘Various moving average convergence divergence trading
strategies: A comparison,’’ Investment Manage. Financial Innov., vol. 13,
no. 2, pp. 363–369, Jul. 2016.
[74] F. A. Rudiawarni, D. Sulistiawan, and Y. K. Feliana, ‘‘Examining trading
strategies using trend following indicators for Indonesian stock market,’’
Int. J. Trade Global Markets, vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 52–60, 2020.
[75] Y. Li, P. Ni, and V. Chang, ‘‘Application of deep reinforcement learning
in stock trading strategies and stock forecasting,’’ Computing, vol. 102,
no. 6, pp. 1305–1322, Jun. 2020.
[76] T. Chavarnakul and D. Enke, ‘‘Stock trading using neural networks and
the ease of movement technical indicator,’’ in Proc. IIE Annu. Conf., 2006,
pp. 1–6.
[77] J.-Z. Huang, W. Huang, and J. Ni, ‘‘Predicting bitcoin returns using highdimensional technical indicators,’’ J. Finance Data Sci., vol. 5, no. 3,
pp. 140–155, Sep. 2019.
[78] S. Deng, H. Yu, C. Wei, T. Yang, and S. Tatsuro, ‘‘The profitability of
ichimoku kinkohyo based trading rules in stock markets and FX markets,’’
Int. J. Finance Econ., vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 5321–5336, Oct. 2021.
[79] G. Cohen, ‘‘Algorithmic strategies for precious metals price forecasting,’’
Mathematics, vol. 10, no. 7, p. 1134, Apr. 2022.
[80] C. Gil, ‘‘Intraday trading of precious metals futures using algorithmic
systems,’’ Chaos, Solitons Fractals, vol. 154, Jan. 2022, Art. no. 111676.
[81] S. M. Nor and N. H. M. Zawawi, ‘‘Technical trading profitability:
Evidence from international oil and gas companies,’’ AIP Conf. Proc.,
vol. 2644, no. 1, 2022, Art. no. 030036.
[82] D. Mitchell, J. Białkowski, and S. Tompaidis, ‘‘Volume-weighted average
price tracking: A theoretical and empirical study,’’ IISE Trans., vol. 52,
no. 8, pp. 864–889, Aug. 2020.
[83] A. Gorgulho, R. Neves, and N. Horta, ‘‘Applying a GA kernel on optimizing technical analysis rules for stock picking and portfolio composition,’’
Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 2011, pp. 14072–14085, May 2011.
[84] R. Sugumar, A. Rengarajan, and C. Jayakumar, ‘‘A technique to stock
market prediction using fuzzy clustering and artificial neural networks,’’
Comput. Inf., vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 992–1024, Oct. 2015.
[85] D. Vezeris, T. Kyrgos, I. Karkanis, and V. Bizergianidou, ‘‘Automated
trading systems’ evaluation using d-backtest PS method and WM ranking
in financial markets,’’ Investment Manage. Financial Innov., vol. 17, no. 2,
pp. 198–215, Jun. 2020.
[86] C. Brownlees and A. B. M. Souza, ‘‘Backtesting global growth-at-risk,’’
J. Monetary Econ., vol. 118, pp. 312–330, Mar. 2021.
[87] S. T. Tayalı, ‘‘A novel backtesting methodology for clustering in
mean–variance portfolio optimization,’’ Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 209,
Dec. 2020, Art. no. 106454.
[88] M. Grinblatt and S. Titman, Financial Markets and Corporate Strategy.
New York, NY, USA: McGraw-Hill, 2002.
[89] Y. Jiang, ‘‘Application and comparison of multiple machine learning
models in finance,’’ Sci. Program., vol. 2022, pp. 1–9, Mar. 2022.
[90] J. E. Camacho-Cogollo, I. Bonet, B. Gil, and E. Iadanza, ‘‘Machine learning models for early prediction of sepsis on large healthcare datasets,’’
Electronics, vol. 11, no. 9, p. 1507, May 2022.
[91] N. Yadav Vanguri, S. Pazhanirajan, and T. Anil Kumar, ‘‘Extraction of
technical indicators and data augmentation-based stock market prediction
using deep LSTM integrated competitive swarm feedback algorithm,’’
Int. J. Inf. Technol. Decis. Making, vol. 2023, pp. 1–27, Feb. 2023.
[92] K. Gajamannage, Y. Park, and D. I. Jayathilake, ‘‘Real-time forecasting of
time series in financial markets using sequentially trained dual-LSTMs,’’
Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 223, Aug. 2023, Art. no. 119879.
[93] C. Liang, Q. Luo, Y. Li, and L. D. T. Huynh, ‘‘Global financial stress index
and long-term volatility forecast for international stock markets,’’ J. Int.
Financial Markets, Inst. Money, vol. 88, Oct. 2023, Art. no. 101825.
[94] T. Fischer and C. Krauss, ‘‘Deep learning with long short-term memory
networks for financial market predictions,’’ Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 270,
no. 2, pp. 654–669, Oct. 2018.
[95] K. J. Huang, ‘‘DeepValue: A comparable framework for valuebased strategy by machine learning,’’ Comput. Econ., vol. 60, no. 1,
pp. 325–346, Jun. 2022.
[96] S. Banik, N. Sharma, M. Mangla, S. N. Mohanty, and S. Shitharth,
‘‘LSTM based decision support system for swing trading in stock market,’’ Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 239, Mar. 2022, Art. no. 107994.
[97] D. C. Yıldırım, I. H. Toroslu, and U. Fiore, ‘‘Forecasting directional movement of forex data using LSTM with technical and
macroeconomic indicators,’’ Financial Innov., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 1–36,
Dec. 2021.
[98] C. Sang and M. Di Pierro, ‘‘Improving trading technical analysis with
tensorflow long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network,’’ J. Finance
Data Sci., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 1–11, Mar. 2019.
[99] M. A. Alghamdi, A. S. A.-M. Al-Ghamdi, and M. Ragab, ‘‘Predicting
energy consumption using stacked LSTM snapshot ensemble,’’ Big Data
Mining Anal., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 247–270, Jun. 2024.
[100] N. Chen, H. Tu, X. Duan, L. Hu, and C. Guo, ‘‘Semisupervised
anomaly detection of multivariate time series based on a variational
autoencoder,’’ Int. J. Speech Technol., vol. 53, no. 5, pp. 6074–6098,
Jul. 2022.
[101] S. Li, Z. Tian, and Y. Li, ‘‘Residual long short-term memory network with multi-source and multi-frequency information fusion: An
application to China’s stock market,’’ Inf. Sci., vol. 622, pp. 133–147,
Apr. 2023.
[102] D. Hirshleifer and D. Jiang, ‘‘A financing-based misvaluation factor and
the cross-section of expected returns,’’ Rev. Financial Stud., vol. 23, no. 9,
pp. 3401–3436, Sep. 2010.
[103] F. Ali, ‘‘Testing mispricing-augmented factor models in an emerging
market: A quest for parsimony,’’ Borsa Istanbul Rev., vol. 22, no. 2,
pp. 272–284, Mar. 2022.